.TH CAL(1),User Commands,CAL(1)

.SH NAME
cal - displays a calendar

.SH SYNOPSIS
cal [-jmwy] [month] [year]

.SH DESCRIPTION

cal displays a simple calendar. Calendars may be displayed by month or by year.

A single numerical parameter specifies the year (1 - 9999) to be displayed.
The year must be fully specified: "cal 89" will not display a calendar for 1989.
Two parameters denote the month (1 - 12, or a month name or abbreviation thereof) and year.
Alternatively, a single parameter may be given specifying the name or abbreviated name of a month:
in that case a calendar is displayed for that month of the current year.
If no parameters are specified, the current month's calendar is displayed.

A year starts on January 1st.

The Gregorian Reformation is assumed to have occurred in 1752 after the 2nd of September.
By this time, most countries had recognized the Reformation (although a few did not recognize it until the early 1900s).
Eleven days following that date were eliminated by the Reformation, so the calendar for that month is a bit unusual.

.SH OPTIONS
-j: Display Julian dates (days one-based, numbered from January 1).
The options -j and -w are mutually exclusive.

-m: Display weeks starting on Monday instead of Sunday.

-w: Display week numbers in the month display. If -m is specified, the ISO week format is assumed. The options -j and -w are mutually exclusive.

-y: Display a calendar for the current year.

.SH EXIT STATUS
The cal utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.
