.TH CRON(1),User Commands,CRON(1)

.SH NAME
cron - run commands on a schedule

.SH SYNOPSIS
cron crontab

.SH DESCRIPTION
cron reads the named crontab file once at startup, then wakes every minute and runs any command whose schedule matches the current time.

cron runs in the foreground at priority 4 and never returns on its own;
kill it with kill(1) when you're done.

.SH CRONTAB FORMAT
Each non-empty line has five time fields followed by a command:

minute hour day-of-month month day-of-week command

Field values:

minute: 0-59

hour: 0-23

day-of-month: 1-31

month: 1-12

day-of-week: 0-6 (0 is Sunday)

Each field may be:

A single number - match only that value.

A range X-Y - match any value from X through Y inclusive.

A comma-separated list - each element may itself be a number or a range, e.g. 0,15,30-45.

* - match every value.

Up to 12 ranges may appear in one field.

Commands are executed via shell -c, so pipes, redirections, and shell built-ins are available.
Lines longer than 511 characters are truncated.

.SH MATCHING
For a given minute, a command runs if all five fields match the current minute, hour, month, and either day-of-month or day-of-week.
The day fields are OR-ed: a command with day-of-month=1 and day-of-week=0 runs on every Sunday AND on the first of every month.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
cron: missing crontab file to open - no argument was given.

Error opening file 'FILE', code #:NN - the crontab could not be opened.

A line containing a malformed field is echoed back to stderr and cron exits.

.SH EXIT STATUS
0: Never reached on the main path.

1: No crontab was supplied, the file could not be opened, or a line failed to parse.

.SH SEE ALSO
kill(1), sleep(1)
