.TH DB(1),User Commands,DB(1)

.SH NAME
db - small sql database

.SH SYNOPSIS
db FILE
db FILE 'statement'

.SH DESCRIPTION
The db utility stores tables of data in a single database file and queries them with a small subset of SQL. With only a file argument it starts an interactive prompt; with a second argument it executes that one statement and exits.

The whole database file is rewritten after every statement that changes data, so quitting at any time is safe. A power loss during a write can corrupt the file.

.SH SQL STATEMENTS
CREATE TABLE t (col INT, col TEXT, ...)

DROP TABLE t

INSERT INTO t VALUES (1, 'text')

SELECT * FROM t [WHERE col op value]

SELECT col, col FROM t [WHERE ...]

UPDATE t SET col = value [WHERE ...]

DELETE FROM t [WHERE ...]

INT is a signed 16-bit number (-32768 to 32767). TEXT is a string of up to 100 bytes, quoted with single quotes; use '' for a literal quote. WHERE supports = != <> < > <= >= for INT and = != for TEXT (case-sensitive). Keywords and names are case-insensitive. Every INSERT must supply a value for every column.

.SH DOT COMMANDS
.tables: list table names.

.schema: print the CREATE statement for each table.

.help: short usage summary.

.quit (or .exit): leave the prompt.

.SH LIMITS
8 tables per file, 8 columns per table, names up to 10 characters, rows up to 255 encoded bytes, about 8 kilobytes of row data per table. No JOIN, NULL, ORDER BY, aggregates, or transactions.

.SH EXIT STATUS
Exits 0 on success. In one-shot mode, exits 1 if the statement failed.

.SH EXAMPLES
$ db test.db "CREATE TABLE people (name TEXT, age INT)"

$ db test.db "INSERT INTO people VALUES ('bob', 42)"

$ db test.db "SELECT name FROM people WHERE age > 18"
