.TH ED(1),User Commands,ED(1)

.SH NAME
ed - line-oriented text editor

.SH SYNOPSIS
ed [file]

.SH DESCRIPTION
ed is a line-oriented text editor in the style of the classic Unix ed(1).
The buffer holds the text being edited, and a command prompt is used to view and modify it one or more lines at a time.

If file is given, it is read into the buffer on startup and becomes the current filename.

Each command line consists of an optional address (or address range) followed by a single command letter and optional arguments.
Addresses may be line numbers, or the special forms . (current line), $ (last line), or a relative expression such as +N or -N.

.SH COMMANDS
a: Append. Enter input mode after the addressed line. Terminate input with a single . on its own line.

i: Insert. Enter input mode before the addressed line.

c: Change. Replace the addressed lines with text typed in input mode.

d: Delete the addressed lines.

p: Print the addressed lines.

n: Print addressed lines, each prefixed by its line number.

l: Print addressed lines with non-printable characters shown.

m: Move lines to a new address.

t: Copy (transfer) lines to a new address.

j: Join the addressed lines into one.

y: Yank (copy) addressed lines.

o: Paste (output) yanked lines.

N: Show the number of lines in the buffer.

r file: Read file and append to buffer after the addressed line.

e file: Replace buffer with file contents.

E file: Like e but discard unsaved changes without warning.

w [file]: Write buffer to file (or current filename if omitted).

W [file]: Append buffer to file.

f [file]: Show or set the current filename.

q: Quit. Refuses if the buffer is modified and not yet written.

Q: Quit without warning.

x: Execute an external command.

h: Print the last error.

v, V: Reserved / extension commands.

.SH EXIT STATUS
0: Normal exit.

Non-zero: Startup error, such as failure to read the file given on the command line.
