.TH EXPR(1),User Commands,EXPR(1)

.SH NAME
expr - evaluate expression

.SH SYNOPSIS
expr 	expression ...

.SH DESCRIPTION
The expr utility evaluates each expression and writes the result on standard output. All operators are separate arguments to the expr utility. Characters special to the command interpreter must be escaped.

Operators are listed below in order of increasing precedence. Operators with equal precedence are grouped within { } symbols.

expr1 | expr2: Returns the evaluation of expr1 if it is neither an empty string nor zero; otherwise, returns the evaluation of expr2.

expr1 & expr2: Returns the evaluation of expr1 if neither expression evaluates to an empty string or zero; otherwise, returns zero.

expr1 {=, >, >=, <, <=, !=} expr2: Returns the results of integer comparison if both arguments are decimal integers;
otherwise, returns the results of string comparison using the locale-specific collation sequence.
The result of each comparison is 1 if the specified relation is true, or 0 if the relation is false.

expr1 {+, -} expr2: Returns the results of addition or subtraction of decimal integer-valued arguments.

expr1 {*, /} expr2: Returns the results of multiplication or integer division of decimal integer-valued arguments.

Parentheses are used for grouping in the usual manner.

.SH EXIT STATUS

The expr utility exits with one of the following values:

0: The expression is neither an empty string nor 0.

1: The expression is an empty string or 0.

2: The expression is invalid.

>2: An error occurred (such as memory allocation failure).

.SH EXAMPLES

Add 1 to the variable a:

$ a=`expr $a + 1`

