.TH NL(1),User Commands,NL(1)

.SH NAME
nl - line numbering filter

.SH SYNOPSIS
nl [-p] [-b type] [-d delim] [-f type] [-h type] [-i incr] [-l num] [-n format] [-s sep] [-v startnum] [-w width] [file]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The nl utility reads lines from the named file, applies a configurable line numbering filter operation, and writes the result to the standard output. If file is a single dash (-) or absent, nl reads from the standard input.

nl treats the text it reads in terms of logical pages. Unless specified otherwise, line numbering is reset at the start of each logical page. A logical page consists of a header, a body and a footer section; empty sections are valid. Different line numbering options are independently available for header, body and footer sections.

The starts of logical page sections are signaled by input lines containing nothing but one of the following sequences of delimiter characters:

    \:\:\:    header
    \:\:      body
    \:        footer

If the input does not contain any logical page section signaling directives, the text being read is assumed to consist of a single logical page body.

.SH OPTIONS
-b type: Specify the logical page body lines to be numbered. Recognized type arguments are:

    a: Number all lines.
    t: Number only non-empty lines. (default)
    n: No line numbering.

-d delim: Specify the delimiter characters used to indicate the start of a logical page section. At most two characters may be specified; if only one is given, the first character is replaced and the second remains unchanged. Default is \:.

-f type: Same as -b type but for logical page footer lines. Default type is n.

-h type: Same as -b type but for logical page header lines. Default type is n.

-i incr: Specify the increment value used to number logical page lines. Default is 1.

-l num: When numbering all lines (-b a, -f a, or -h a), specify the number of adjacent blank lines to be considered as one. For example, -l 2 results in only the second adjacent blank line being numbered. Default is 1.

-n format: Specify the line numbering output format. Recognized format arguments are:

    ln: Left justified.
    rn: Right justified, leading zeros suppressed. (default)
    rz: Right justified, leading zeros kept.

-p: Do not restart line numbering at logical page delimiters.

-s sep: Specify the characters used to separate the line number from the text line. Default is a single tab character.

-v startnum: Specify the initial value used to number logical page lines. Default is 1.

-w width: Specify the number of characters to be occupied by the line number. Default is 6.

.SH EXIT STATUS
The nl utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

.SH EXAMPLES
Number all non-empty lines of a file:

$ nl foo

Number all lines including blank lines:

$ nl -b a foo

Number lines with left-justified format and a colon separator:

$ nl -n ln -s : foo
