.TH PASTE(1),User Commands,PASTE(1)

.SH NAME
paste - merge corresponding lines of files

.SH SYNOPSIS
paste [-s] [-d delimiters] [file ...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
paste writes lines from each named file to standard output, separated by a delimiter.
A file operand of - refers to standard input.
If no file is given, paste reads from standard input.

In the default parallel mode, paste reads one line from each file in turn and writes them on a single output line separated by delimiters.
Output continues until every file reaches end-of-file;
a file that has run out contributes an empty field to the remaining lines.

With -s, paste operates on one file at a time, joining every line of that file onto a single output line before moving on to the next file.

The delimiter list is cycled: the first delimiter is used between the first pair of fields, the second between the second pair, and so on, wrapping to the beginning of the list as needed.

.SH OPTIONS
-d delimiters: Use the characters of delimiters as the separator list instead of the default tab.
Up to 15 delimiter characters are accepted.

-s: Serial mode. Concatenate every line of each file onto a single output line before processing the next file.

.SH LIMITS
At most 8 files may be merged at once.
Lines longer than 127 characters are split across multiple output records.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
paste: invalid delimiter list - -d was given an empty or over-long argument.

paste: too many files (max 8) - more than 8 file operands were supplied.

paste: FILE: ... - a named file could not be opened.

.SH EXIT STATUS
0: All input processed successfully.

1: A file could not be opened, an invalid option was given, or too many files were supplied.
