.TH VI(1),User Commands,VI(1)

.SH NAME
vi - screen-oriented text editor

.SH SYNOPSIS
vi [file]

.SH DESCRIPTION
vi is a modal, screen-oriented text editor.
If file is given, it is loaded into the edit buffer;
otherwise the editor starts on an empty buffer.

Lines are stored in extended-memory banks, and the editor maintains its own ordered line index.
vi takes over stdin in unbuffered mode while running.

.SH MODES
Normal: the starting mode.
Keys are interpreted as commands.

Insert: text typed is inserted at the cursor.
Enter with i, I, a, A, o, or O.
Leave with Esc.

Command-line: accessed by pressing :.
A line is typed at the bottom of the screen and executed on Enter.
Esc cancels.

.SH NORMAL-MODE COMMANDS
h, left arrow: move cursor one column left

l, right arrow: move cursor one column right

j, down arrow: move cursor one line down

k, up arrow: move cursor one line up

0: move cursor to start of line

$: move cursor to end of line

w: move forward one word

b: move back one word

gg: move to first line

G: move to last line

i: insert before cursor

I: insert at beginning of line

a: insert after cursor

A: insert at end of line

o: open a new line below and insert

O: open a new line above and insert

x, Delete: delete character under cursor

dd: delete the current line

yy: yank (copy) the current line

p: put yanked line after the current line

P: put yanked line before the current line

/: begin a search prompt

n: repeat last search forward

N: repeat last search backward

:: enter command-line mode

.SH COMMAND-LINE COMMANDS
:q: quit.
Refused if the buffer has unsaved changes.

:q!: quit without saving.

:w: write buffer to the current filename.

:w FILE: set the filename to FILE and write.

:wq: write and quit.

:x: write and quit.

:e FILE: load FILE, replacing the current buffer.

:N: move the cursor to line N (decimal).

:M,Nd: delete lines M through N inclusive.

.SH SEARCH
/ reads a pattern at the status line;
Enter runs the search.
n and N repeat it forward or backward, starting from the line after (or before) the cursor line.

.SH LIMITS
Line length is limited to 255 characters by the edit scratch buffers.
Filenames, search patterns, and command-line input each have their own fixed-size buffers.

.SH EXIT STATUS
0: Clean exit (including :q! with unsaved changes).

1: Failed to reserve the extended-memory banks the editor needs to start.

.SH SEE ALSO
ed(1)
